README

This sample program demonstrates, how the circle-mbedtls MQTT client can be used
to subscribe topics from a MQTT server/broker and receive messages from it, and
how to publish messages to the MQTT server.


To use this sample you need a MQTT server/broker, which supports version 3.1.1
of the MQTT protocol (e.g. Mosquitto) and TLS, installed and running somewhere
in your local network (difficult because of the needed TLS support) or on the
Internet.

One option for a first test is the public MQTT server/broker
"test.mosquitto.org" on the Internet. Please note that this server is available
for anybody without authentication. That means, anybody may read your published
messages, may overwrite them at any time or may publish viral content. So be
careful!

Another option are the different MQTT cloud servers on the Internet. This option
is more secure, because these servers require a password.


Before building the sample program, you may have to update its configuration in
the file mqttconfig.cpp. You need to set the hostname of the MQTT server/broker
to be used, the unique client identifier, user name (as C-string if needed,
otherwise 0), password and the MQTT topic used by the MQTT publisher client, and
the same for the MQTT subscriber client. Other options in this file can normally
remain unchanged. The #define TLS_RSA_MIN_KEY_SIZE is required for
"test.mosquitto.org" only, because it provides a certificate with only 1024 bits
RSA key size, which is normally too short for mbed TLS applications. If you are
not using DHCP you can set your local network configuration in the file
kernel.cpp.

After initialization the sample program creates two connections to the
configured MQTT server/broker (one for the publisher and one for the
subscriber). The MQTT subscriber subscribes to a topic (default
"circle/status/json") and after 5 seconds the MQTT publisher publishes (by
default) the current CPU temperature of your Raspberry Pi to the same topic.
Because the subscriber has subscribed to this topic before, it will receive a
message back with this content (payload), which will be display on the screen
(OnMessage). After another 30 seconds the publisher publishes the same topic
again, and so on until it disconnects from the server/broker after 120 seconds.
Please note that normally a computer would not subscribe to the topics it
publishes by itself. This is used here for demonstration purpose only.

By default the transferred data will be encrypted, but there is no
authentication of the server. If you want server authentication, you have to
provide the needed certificate. For "test.mosquitto.org" just do "make certs" in
the directory of the sample and put the downloaded .der file in the root
directory of the SD card along with the kernel image. The connection will be
secure against Man-in-the-middle attacks then. If you use a MQTT cloud server of
your choice, you have to provide the needed certificate file (.pem, .crt or
.der) by yourself on the SD card.


Some possible disconnect reasons (error messages) may be:

* "Unacceptable protocol version" (MQTT server does not support MQTT v3.1.1)
* "Not authorized" (MQTT server/broker requires authentication)
* "DNS error" (Invalid host name or IP address of the MQTT server configured)
* "Not supported" (Trying to send or receive multi-byte-character strings)
* "Insufficient resources" (Increase Maximum packet size and/or queue depth)
